x3270 Version 3.1 -- New Features and Bug Fixes

x3270 3.1.0.5 is a consolidation of all of the patch releases of x3270 3.0.3,
plus some additional bug fixes and a number of new features.

New Features

Added a Select by Rectangles menu option to do rectangular selections in ANSI
mode. (requested by Benoit Leclerc)

Added a 20-point font, 3270-20. (requested by Dick Heijne, John McFarland and
Hans-Eric Sandstrom)

Added selection character classes: a -cc option and the charClass resource,
just like xterm. This allows precise control over the regions of text selected
with a double mouse click. (requested by Benoit Leclerc)

Added an Oversize menu option to set the screen oversize. (requested by Bob
Kingman)

Added a Save Changed Options in File menu option to save the values of options
that have been changed by menus into a file, which will be read by x3270 the
next time it starts up. (requested by David Wilcox and Hans-Eric Sandstrom)

Added support for Sun's itelnetd (a firewall pass-through service) via a p:
prefix on the hostname.

[Incompatibility] The app-defaults file is now compiled directly into x3270.
(The Imakefile can be edited to produce a version of x3270 that uses a separate
app-defaults file.) There are now different resources for monochrome and color
X displays.

The menus a little more Motif-like, with many pullrights (cascaded menus).

[Incompatibility] Fully implemented 3270 Graphic Escapes. This encompasses a
number of changes:

   * Added support for 3270 line-drawing characters using Graphic Escapes.
     Fixes bug #318. (requested by Holger Hagedorn, Chris Paulson-Ellis, John
     A. Baldi and Don Harper)
   * Changed the representation of APL characters to use Graphic Escapes.
   * Added explicit non-support for APL characters in fonts that don't include
     them.
   * Use ASCII ESC characters to identify characters with Graphic Escapes in
     cut/pasted text.
   * Folded the APL font into the standard 14-point 3270 font. (For now, this
     is the only font with APL characters.)
   * Extended all of the 3270 fonts to 534 possible characters: EBCDIC and
     status line sybols (codes 0x000-0x0ff as before), APL (codes 0x100-0x1ff)
     and DEC line drawing (codes 0x200-0x21f).

[Incompatibility] Made -charset bracket the default. To get the old default
character set, you must use an explicit -charset us-intl.

Added support for ANSI-mode line-drawing characters and character sets.
(requested by Dick Heijne)

[Incompatibility] Implemented color schemes, resources that control the X
colors used to display 3270 colors. These replace the multiple discrete
resources used in the past. The color scheme can be changed from a menu option.
(requested by Dick Heijne and Hans-Eric Sandstrom)

Added an Expect() action for scripts: Expect(string[,timeout]). Pauses a
script, waiting for a sequence of characters or a timeout (default 30 seconds).
Valid in ANSI mode only. (requested by Donald Parsons)

[Incompatibility] Eliminated the -color and -extended options (they're still
there for backwards confusion). Made color (3279 mode) the default. Combined
color and extended mode onto a new model syntax, with 3279-4-E or 3278-4-E the
default, depending on the display depth.

Moved the html documents into their own directory.

[Incompatibility] Changed the default trace directory from /usr/tmp to /tmp.
(questioned by Tjemsland Svein)

Added a keymap selection option. (requested by Dick Heijne)

Now install a sample ibm_hosts file. Made the default ibm_hosts path depend on
the X11 configuration. (code submitted by Joe Ramey)

The character set can be changed from a menu option. (requested by Dick Heijne
and Hans-Eric Sandstrom)

A new Script() action allows running a script as a child of x3270. Added an
Examples directory with examples of an ibm_hosts file, plus peer and child
scripts for sh, ksh, bash and expect.

The ibm_hosts file can now specify a list of actions to execute when connecting
to a host (including running a script), rather than just a simple string.

[Incompatibility] Changed the names of the Sun keymaps from sun-xxx to sun_xxx,
so one no longer needs to worry about cpp mistranslating resource definitions.
(requested by Raymond A. Wiker)

Changed the method of cancelling a partial Compose() action: instead of
pressing the Compose key again, it is now cancelled by pressing the Reset key.
This makes it easier for keymap and macro definitions to include composite
keys. (requested by Ulrich Bernhard)

Added Compose and Newline keys to the pop-up keypad. (requested by Ulrich
Bernhard)

Bug Fixes Since v3.0.3.7

The compose key didn't work with the "^" key.

The playback utility couldn't be built on AIX. (reported by Jeffrey W. Parker)

The SysReq() action didn't produce trace messages.

Found a much better way to handle NumLock on Sun keyboards, using an xmodmap
command rather than a kludged x3270 keymap. This is documented in the FAQ.
Fixes bug #333. (reported by John McFarland)

Allow a connection to be broken with ECONNRESET without popping up an error
message. Fixes bug #334. (reported by Craig Gruneberg)

Needed to propogate the make CC= directive into the mkversion.sh script.
(reported by James Simpson)

The ow keymap modifier broke the Shift-Button1 MoveCursor action. Fixes bug
#335. (reported by Kurt Marti)

Improved data stream tracing in ANSI mode.

Fixed keyboard input of certain APL characters. Fixes bug #337. (reported by
Jonathan Andrew McEllroy)

Give back old GCs when finished with them.

Fixed a bug where x3270 gave an extra script prompt if a hostname was put on
the command line.

host-specific macro definitions (x3270.macros.xxx) weren't being seen unless
x3270.macros was defined as well. (reported by Xristos Albanis)

Removed some compiler and loader warnings.

Stopped translating pasted tabs to spaces. (reported by Shamus McBride)

Added a workaround for a bug in the Linux Mach32 X server. (reported by David
Nessl, fix submitted by Frank Racis)

Fixed a problem with instering the last character of a field in Blank Fill
mode. (reported by Lars-Peter Swaerd)

The response to the Read Modified command was missing the values of changed
fields. (reported by Lars-Peter Sward)

When using cursorColor and useCursorColor, changing the font caused the cursor
to be drawn incorrectly. (reported by Karlheinz Kandler)

Added a pop-up message when the window manager overrides the chosen screen
size.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[What follows is a history of the Alpha and Beta Test releases of x3270 3.1.0.
Some of the information is duplicated above, and much of it traces problems
introduced and later fixed in the testing cycle.]

Fixes Since x3270 v3.1.0A (First Alpha Release)

X11/Xfuncproto.h is required to build under OpenWindows 3.0; it is now included
with the code (reported by Paul Croome)

Makefile.openwin had the wrong all target

Imakefile.R4 still referred to x3270.c, rather than main.c (reported by Bob
Kingman)

Save Changed Options in File didn't save the value of the screen oversize
(reported by Bob Kingman)

Fixes Since x3270 v3.1.0A2 (Second Alpha Release)

Selecting more than one line of text caused a core dump. (reported by Ulrich
Bernhard)

host-specific macro definitions (x3270.macros.xxx) weren't being seen unless
x3270.macros was defined as well. (reported by Xristos Albanis)

Removed some compiler and loader warnings.

Changes Since x3270 v3.1.0A3 (Third Alpha Release)

The character set can be changed from a menu option.

A new Script() action allows running a script as a child of x3270. Added an
Examples directory with examples of an ibm_hosts file, plus peer and child
scripts for sh, ksh, bash and expect.

The ibm_hosts file can now specify a list of actions to execute when connecting
to a host (including running a script), rather than just a simple string.

[Incompatibility] Changed the names of the Sun keymaps from sun-xxx to sun_xxx,
so one no longer needs to worry about cpp mistranslating resource definitions.
(requested by Raymond A. Wiker)

Stopped translating pasted tabs to spaces. (reported by Shamus McBride)

Changed the method of cancelling a partial Compose() action: instead of
pressing the Compose key again, it is now cancelled by pressing the Reset key.
This makes it easier for keymap and macro definitions to include composite
keys. (requested by Ulrich Bernhard)

Added Compose and Newline keys to the pop-up keypad. (requested by Ulrich
Bernhard)

Added a workaround for a bug in the Linux Mach32 X server. (reported by David
Nessl, fix submitted by Frank Racis)

Fixed a problem with instering the last character of a field in Blank Fill
mode. (reported by Lars-Peter Swaerd)

Bug Fixes Since x3270 v3.1.0B4 (Beta Release)

Fixed a typo in Makefile.openwin. (reported by Bill Oliver)

The Expect() often didn't work more than once per session.

The response to the Read Modified command was missing the values of changed
fields. (reported by Lars-Peter Sward)

When using cursorColor and useCursorColor, changing the font caused the cursor
to be drawn incorrectly. (reported by Karlheinz Kandler)

The active icon didn't track color scheme changes. (reported by Karlheinz
Kandler)

Added a pop-up message when the window manager overrides the chosen screen
size.
