
             Installation for Minicom 1.79 - 1.82.


Edit the Makefile to choose your C-compiler and CFLAGS. Entries
for a lot of systems are already defined, you only have to
uncomment them. Also define where your binaries go and where you want
the configuration files to be placed.

The default configuration is to compile for Linux, and to install it in
/usr/bin and /etc.

Now you may edit "config.h". Reasonable defaults for some systems are
already filled in, and changes will probably not be needed.  Most of the
system defaults defined here can also be changed by running minicom as root
with the -s option, so there should not be much need to edit config.h
(unless you are adding some new features to the program :-)

If everything is allright, you can type "make" and "minicom",
and "runscript" will be compiled. Ignore any warnings you might
see; I couldn't keep the source generic and at the same time
get all compilers to shut up (Linux and Coherent compilers don't
give warnings; the BSD 2.3.3 gcc does).
If you have gotten this far, it is time to install the executables.

if you trust the installation procedure (I do!) you can just type
'make install' as root. If you insist on installing manually:

1. Copy "minicom" to a bin directory (eg /usr/bin).  
   chown it to root and install it set-uid (chmod 4755 minicom, NOT
   recommended) or make your modem device (/dev/ttyS1 or something like
   that) world writable (chmod a+rw /dev/ttyS1), or give rw permissions to
   the group owning the device (chmod g+rw /dev/ttyS1) and join all users
   that you allow to use minicom to that group.
2. Copy "runscript" to the same "bin" directory.
3. Copy "xminicom" to this directory too. It's a little shell
   script that puts up an xterm with minicom in it.
4. Copy "keyserv" to the LIB directory defined in the Makefile.
   (If you have a system with the select() system call, you won't
    have the 'keyserv' binary anymore !).
   Don't install "runscript" and/or "keyserv" setuid root!
5. Edit the "minicom.users" file (in the directory as defined in
   "Makefile") to add users who may use minicom. If you don't
   install "minicom.users" everybody may use minicom!
6  Minicom has been installed.

X/Y/Z modem.

Minicom works with zmodem version that use stdin/stdout for
communication with the modems. Newer zmodem versions don't do this,
AND they are copyrighted

Fortunately there is a free PD zmodem now, based on one of the older (PD)
zmodem sources. This one is called "lrzsz". It may be included in this
package, or it might already be on your system; otherwise you can find it
on the net by searching for lrzsz with "archie".

Configuration.

Probably some defaults are not good enough for your system.
So type (still as root) "minicom -s". This will not initialize
minicom but takes you directly into the configuration menu. 
After you have it configured, remember to select "Save setup as dfl" from
the configuration menu to save the settings as system defaults.
See the minicom manual page for details.

Graphics with terminfo (ncurses).

If you want minicom to use the ANSI or IBM-PC character set,
check the following directories and read the README files:

terminfo/  if you're on a terminfo system (Debian Linux, sysv)
termcap/   if you're on a termcap system.

